External Fingerprint Storage phase 2 blog post (#3541)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2020/07/2020-07-20-external-fingerprint-storage-phase-2.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "External Fingerprint Storage Phase-2 Updates"
tags:
- plugins
- fingerprint
- cloud-native
- external-storage
- developer
- redis
- gsoc
- gsoc2020
author: stellargo
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/2020/06-external-fingerprint-storage/redis_plugin_gsoc_opengraph.png
---

As another great phase for the

> link:https://www.jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2020/projects/external-fingerprint-storage/[External Fingerprint Storage Project]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:/projects/gsoc/2020/projects/external-fingerprint-storage/[External Fingerprint Storage Project]
```

Please use relative links for local content

comes to an end, we summarise the work done during this phase in this blog post.
It was an exciting and fruitful journey, just like like the previous phase, with me learning something new every day.

To understand what the project is about and the past progress, please refer to the
link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2020/06/27/external-fingerprint-storage/[phase 1 blog post].

== New Stories Completed

We targeted four stories in this phase, namely fingerprint cleanup, fingerprint migration, refactoring the current
implementation to use descriptors, and improved testing of the Redis Fingerprint Storage Plugin.
We explain these stories in detail below.

=== Fingerprint Cleanup

* link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/4817[]

* link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/redis-fingerprint-storage-plugin/pull/23[]

This story involved extending the `FingerprintStorage` API to allow external storage plugins to perform and configure
their own fingerprint cleanup strategies.

> Jenkins core API was updated with the following functionalities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We added the following functionalities to Jenkins core API:
```

link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/redis-fingerprint-storage-plugin[Redis Fingerprint Storage Plugin].
These tests allow testing of cases like slow connection, breakage of connection to Redis, etc.
These were implemented using the Toxiproxy module inside Testcontainers.

* link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/redis-fingerprint-storage-plugin/pull/31[]

We introduced test for Configuration-as-code (JCasC) compatibility with the plugin.
The documentation for configuring the plugin using JCasC was also added.

* link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/redis-fingerprint-storage-plugin/pull/39[]

We introduced a suite of authentication tests, to verify the proper working of the Redis authentication system.
Authentication uses the credentials plugin.

* link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/redis-fingerprint-storage-plugin/pull/32[]
* link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/redis-fingerprint-storage-plugin/pull/36[]

We strengthened our web UI testing to ensure that the configuration page for the plugin works properly as planned.

=== Other miscellaneous tasks

Please refer to the link:https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-62754[Jira Epic] for this phase.

== Release

> Changes in the Jenkins core were released in Jenkins <TODO>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changes in the Jenkins core were released in link:/changelog/#v2.248[Jenkins 2.248].
```

> The latest plugin version <TODO> was released with all the new features and changes.

Reviewer: Still needs a release

== Trying out the new features!

The latest release for the plugin can be downloaded from the experimental update center, instructions for which can be
found in the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/redis-fingerprint-storage-plugin/blob/master/README.adoc[README]
of the plugin.
We appreciate you trying out the plugin, and welcome any suggestions, feature requests, bug reports, etc.

== Acknowledgements

The Redis Fingerprint Storage plugin is built and maintained by the Google Summer of Code (GSoC) Team for

> link:https://www.jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2020/projects/external-fingerprint-storage/[External Fingerprint Storage for

Reviewer: relative link

Jenkins]. Special thanks to link:https://github.com/oleg-nenashev[Oleg Nenashev],
link:https://github.com/afalko[Andrey Falko], link:https://github.com/mikecirioli[Mike Cirioli],
link:https://github.com/timja[Tim Jacomb], and the entire Jenkins community for all the contribution to this project.

> == Future Work

Reviewer: I think it can be updated based on the current plan.

Some of the topics we aim to tackle in the next phase include a new reference implementation (possibly backed

> by PostGreSQL), JSON serialization of fingerprint objects, relational mapping, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by PostgreSQL), JSON serialization of fingerprint objects, relational mapping, etc.
```
